DOCSP-45195: Project fields (#105)
mongodb/docs-ruby: source/read/project.txt

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: read, filter, project, select, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to specify which fields
to return from a read operation by using a **projection**. A projection is a document
that specifies which fields MongoDB returns from a query.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``restaurants`` collection in the ``sample_restaurants``
database from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To access this collection
from your {+language+} application, create a ``Mongo::Client`` object that connects to
an Atlas cluster and assign the following values to your ``database`` and ``collection``
variables:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/read/project.rb
    :language: ruby
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-db-coll
    :end-before: end-db-coll

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

Projection Types
----------------

> You can use a projection to specify which fields to include in a return
> document, or to specify which fields to exclude. You cannot combine inclusion and
> exclusion statements in a single projection, unless you are excluding the

Reviewer: [s] Suggestion to reduce repetition:
```suggestion
You can use a projection to specify which fields to include or exclude in a return
document. You cannot combine inclusion and
exclusion statements in a single projection, unless you are excluding the
```

``_id`` field.

Specify Fields to Include
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To specify the fields to include in the result, specify the ``projection``
> option in a parameter to the ``find`` method. To set this option, use the following syntax:

Reviewer: [s] Can re-word a bit to avoid repetition of "specify", it's hard to do in this kind of doc but re-reading can make it hard to parse. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
To exclude specific fields from the result, specify the ``projection``
option in a parameter to the ``find`` method. To set this option, use the following syntax:
```

      {"_id"=>BSON::ObjectId('...'), "borough"=>"Queens", "cuisine"=>"American", "name"=>"Emerald Pub"}

When you use a projection to specify fields to include in the return
document, the ``_id`` field is also included by default. All other fields are
implicitly excluded. To remove the ``_id`` field from the return
document, you must :ref:`explicitly exclude it <ruby-project-remove-id>`.

.. _ruby-project-remove-id:

Exclude the ``_id`` Field
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When specifying fields to include, you can also exclude the ``_id`` field from
the returned document. 

The following example performs the same query as the preceding example but
excludes the ``_id`` field from the projection:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable:   

   .. input:: /includes/read/project.rb
      :start-after: start-project-include-without-id
      :end-before: end-project-include-without-id
      :language: ruby
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :visible: false

      {"borough"=>"Manhattan", "cuisine"=>"American", "name"=>"Emerald Pub"}
      {"borough"=>"Queens", "cuisine"=>"American", "name"=>"Emerald Pub"}

Specify Fields to Exclude
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To specify the fields to exclude from the result, specify the ``projection``

Reviewer: [s] Similar to the above, but just a suggestion!

option in a parameter to the ``find`` method. To set this option, use the
following syntax:

.. code-block:: ruby

   { projection: { <field_name>: 0 } }

The following example uses the ``find`` method to find all restaurants in which the ``name``
field value is ``'Emerald Pub'``. Then, the code uses the ``projection`` option

> to instruct the find operation to omit the ``name`` and ``address`` fields

Reviewer: [i] The code example uses `grades` here, so can update description or code example to match.

Author: oops thanks for catching!
